>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1: RUSSIA
WARNS THE UNITED STATES OVER THE
WAR IN SYRIA; THE STRONGEST
HURRICANE IN A DECADE TAKES AIM
IN THE CARIBBEAN; AND IN OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, THE RACE TO
SAVE ITALY'S CULTURAL HERITAGE.
>> Reporter: OKAY, SO, SHE HOPES
THAT THIS FRESCO IS STILL THERE
INSIDE OF HER MUSEUM BECAUSE, OF
COURSE, IT WAS IN THE WALL OF
THE MUSEUM, AND SHE DOESN'T KNOW
EXACTLY HOW WELL IT STOOD UP
DURING THE EARTHQUAKE.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
A WARNING TODAY FROM RUSSIA TO
THE UNITED STATES OVER THE
INTRACTABLE CIVIL WAR IN SYRIA.
AS RUSSIA ESCALATED ITS AIR
STRIKES ON REBEL-HELD PARTS OF
ALEPPO IN NORTHERN SYRIA, IT
WARNED THE U.S. AGAINST
LAUNCHING COUNTER-ATTACKS ON
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT FORCES.
A RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY
SPOKESWOMAN SAID ATTACKS ON
FORCES LOYAL TO PRESIDENT BASHAR
AL ASSAD WOULD LEAD TO
"TERRIBLE, TECTONIC
CONSEQUENCES" IN SYRIA AND
ACROSS THE MIDDLE EAST.
THE RUSSIAN SPOKESWOMAN ADDED,
TOPPLING ASSAD WOULD LEAVE A
POWER VACUUM THAT WOULD BE
FILLED BY TERRORISTS.
ONE AIR STRIKE TODAY HIT THE
LARGEST HOSPITAL IN ALEPPO,
PUTTING THE HOSPITAL OUT OF
SERVICE.
THE UNITED NATIONS SAYS 320
PEOPLE, A THIRD OF WHOM WERE
CHILDREN, HAVE BEEN KILLED IN
ALEPPO SINCE A CEASE-FIRE
BROKERED BY THE U.S. AND RUSSIA
FELL APART IN THE PAST TWO
WEEKS.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
SAID TODAY HE CONTINUES TO PRESS
FOR A DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION TO THE
WAR, NOW IN ITS SIXTH YEAR.
IRAN IS UNVEILING A LONG-RANGE,
BOMB-CARRYING DRONE THAT IT
CLAIMS IS A REPLICA OF AN
AMERICAN MODEL.
IRANIAN STATE-RUN MEDIA TODAY
BROADCAST IMAGES OF ITS SO-
CALLED "THUNDERBOLT," AN
UNMANNED DRONE WHICH, IT SAID,
CAN CARRY BOMBS CAPABLE OF
HITTING FOUR TARGETS.
THE DRONE'S RANGE WAS NOT
SPECIFIED.
IRAN CLAIMS THE THUNDERBOLT
COPIES THE DESIGN OF THE U.S.
SENTINEL SPY DRONE DOWNED OVER
EASTERN IRAN FIVE YEARS AGO.
THE STRONGEST ATLANTIC HURRICANE
IN TEN YEARS IS TAKING AIM ON
JAMAICA, CUBA AND HAITI, AND IS
EXPECTED TO MAKE LANDFALL ON
MONDAY.
HURRICANE MATTHEW IS BEARING
WINDS OF MORE THAN 145 MILES AN
HOUR TODAY, CENTERED ABOUT 400
MILES SOUTHEAST OF JAMAICA.
THE CARIBBEAN ISLAND IS ON HIGH
ALERT AS PEOPLE HURRIED TO STOCK
UP ON FOOD AND SUPPLIES.
WEATHER FORECASTERS SAY JAMAICA
COULD GET UP TO 25 INCHES OF
RAIN WHEN THE HURRICANE HITS.
THE HURRICANE SKIMMED THE TOP OF
SOUTH AMERICA TODAY, DROPPING
TORRENTIAL RAINS AND IS BLAMED
FOR LEAST ONE DEATH IN COLOMBIA.
CUBA DECLARED A STATE OF
EMERGENCY IN ITS EASTERN
PROVINCES AND OPENED SHELTERS
AND STOCKED SUPPLIES.
AFTER FOUR NIGHTS OF PROTESTS,
THERE WAS A PRAYER VIGIL TODAY
IN THE SAN DIEGO SUBURB OF EL
CAJON, CALIFORNIA, TO REMEMBER
AN UNARMED BLACK MAN SHOT TO
DEATH BY POLICE THERE THIS WEEK.
POLICE RESPONDED TUESDAY AFTER
THE SISTER OF 38-YEAR-OLD ALFRED
OLANGO CALLED 911 TO SAY HE WAS
ACTING ERRATICALLY AND WALKING
IN TRAFFIC OUTSIDE A STRIP MALL.
OLANGO'S FAMILY SAYS HE HAD A
HISTORY OF MENTAL ILLNESS.
VIDEO OF THE INCIDENT RELEASED
BY POLICE LAST NIGHT SHOWS AN
OFFICER SHOOTING OLANGO FOUR
TIMES AFTER POLICE SAY HE WAS
UNCOOPERATIVE AND TOOK A
SHOOTING STANCE.
EL CAJON'S POLICE CHIEF SAYS
OLANGO POINTED AN OBJECT THAT
LOOKED LIKE A GUN AT THE
OFFICER, BUT IT WAS A VAPING
CIGARETTE DEVICE.
A FEDERAL JUDGE HAS ORDERED
WISCONSIN TO INVESTIGATE WHETHER
EMPLOYEES AT THE STATE'S
DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES ARE
GIVING ELIGIBLE VOTERS PROPER
INFORMATION TO OBTAIN A PHOTO
I.D. NOW REQUIRED TO VOTE IN
THAT STATE.
YESTERDAY'S ORDER FOLLOWS A
COMPLAINT THAT D.M.V. WORKERS
HAVE GIVEN INCORRECT INFORMATION
TO PEOPLE WHO LACK A BIRTH
CERTIFICATE AND ARE TRYING TO
OBTAIN A TEMPORARY VOTER I.D.
CARD.
THE JUDGE HAS REQUIRED THE STATE
TO REPORT BACK TO HIM BY OCTOBER
7.
EARLY VOTING BEGAN THIS WEEK IN
WISCONSIN, WHICH IS AMONG 14
STATES WITH STRICT VOTER I.D.
LAWS OR CUTBACKS IN EARLY VOTING
TAKING EFFECT FOR THE FIRST TIME
IN A PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION AFTER
YEARS OF COURT CHALLENGES.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION IS
PROPOSING A NEW RACIAL CATEGORY
IN THE U.S. CENSUS FOR PEOPLE OF
MIDDLE EASTERN AND NORTH AFRICAN
HERITAGE.
PEOPLE FROM THE REGION ARE
CURRENTLY CONSIDERED "WHITE."
THE ADMINISTRATION ADVANCED THE
CHANGE IN A PROPOSAL PUBLISHED
IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER
YESTERDAY AND INVITED PUBLIC
COMMENTS FOR 30 DAYS.
IF APPROVED, THE NEW CATEGORY
COULD APPEAR ON CENSUS FORMS IN
2020 AND WOULD HAVE IMPLICATIONS
FOR DISCRIMINATION AND
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION LAWS.
THE U.S. FISH AND WILDLIFE
SERVICE HAS ADDED SEVEN SPECIES
OF BEES TO THE ENDANGERED
SPECIES LIST, A FIRST FOR ANY
AMERICAN BEES.
THE SEVEN SPECIES OF YELLOW-
FACED BEES ARE NATIVE TO HAWAII
AND PLAY A CRUCIAL ROLE IN
POLLINATING PLANTS ON THE
ISLANDS THAT PRODUCE FRUITS,
NUTS AND VEGETABLES.
CONSERVATIONISTS SAY THE BEES
FACE A GROWING THREAT FROM
INVASIVE SPECIES AND LOSS OF
HABITAT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN IT COMES TO
THE RACE FOR THE WHITE HOUSE,
OHIO HAS ALWAYS BEEN A
BELLWETHER.
NO REPUBLICAN HAS EVER WON THE
PRESIDENCY WITHOUT WINNING OHIO.
NO DEMOCRAT SINCE JOHN F.
KENNEDY HAS BECOME PRESIDENT
WITHOUT WINNING OHIO.
BUT THIS YEAR, THE STAKES MAY
NOT BE AS HIGH.
TO HELP US UNDERSTAND WHY, I AM
JOINED FROM WASHINGTON BY "NEW
YORK TIMES" REPORTER JONATHAN
MARTIN.
JONATHAN, THERE WAS I REMEMBER A
DOCUMENTARY BACK IN 2006, YOU
KNOW, CHRONICLING "AS GOES OHIO,
SO GOES THE NATION."
WHAT'S HAPPENING THIS YEAR?
WHY IS THIS DIFFERENT?
>> IT'S DIFFERENT BECAUSE OF TWO
BIG FACTORS.
NUMBER ONE IS THE SORT OF
CHANGING NATURE OF THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
IT IS NOW BUILT ON A COALITION
THAT INCLUDES LESS WORKING CLASS
WHITE VOTERS AND MORE WHAT'S
BEEN CALLED A COALITION OF THE
ASCENDANT-- YOUNGER VOTER,
NON-WHITE VOTERS, FEMALE VOTERS.
AND IT'S MORE-- IT'S MORE
AFFLUENT NOW.
AND OHIO IS A TRADITIONAL RUST
BELT STATE.
AND THAT'S THE OTHER PIECE OF
IT.
THE DEMOGRAPHICS OF OPPONENT
ARE MORE FORBIDDING FOR
DEMOCRATS GIVEN THEIR CURRENT
NATURE TODAY.
SO IF YOU'RE HILLARY CLINTON,
YOU'RE GOING TO COMPETE IN
OHIO-- SHE'S NOT GOING TO PULL
OUT OF THERE.
IN FACT, SHE'S GOING BACK NEXT
WEEK.
BUT IT'S NOT ESSENTIAL.
SO IT'S JUST NOT THE SORT OF
QUINTESSENTIAL BATTLEGROUND
STATE IT HAS BEEN IN YEARS
PASSED BECAUSE THE BOTTOM LINE
IS SHE DOESN'T NEED IT TO GET
THE NECESSARY 270 ELECTORAL
VOTES TO WIN THE PRESIDENCY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND DONALD
TRUMP HAS ALSO STARTED
CAMPAIGNING AS ONE OF HIS MAIN
PLATFORMS IS TRADE, AND THAT WAS
TRADITIONALLY SOMETHING YOU USED
TO HEAR FROM LABOR AND THE LEFT.
>> RIGHT.
AND THAT'S SORT OF TIED TO THE
DEMOGRAPHIC PIECE OF THIS STORY
IS THAT OHIO, BECAUSE IT'S MORE
OF A, YOU KNOW, WHITE,
BLUE-COLLAR STATE, IS VERY, YOU
KNOW, EASY TO GO IN THERE IF
YOU'RE A REPUBLICAN AND RUN ON
THE TRADE ISSUE.
LOOK, MITT ROMNEY FOUR YEARS
AGO, SORT OF A CLASSIC CHAMBER
OF COMMERCE REPUBLICAN, HAD A
DIFFICULT TIME MAKING INROADS IN
SOME OF THOSE COMMUNITIES LIKE
YOUNGSTOWN, WARREN, TOLEDO, THE
KIND OF TRADITIONAL INDUSTRIAL
HEARTLANDS OF THAT STATE.
HERE YOU HAVE TRUMP GOING IN
THERE RUNNING TO THE LEFT OF
A.F.L./C.I.O. ON TRADE AND
HAMMERING THE IMMIGRATION ISSUE.
AND THE COMBINATION OF THOSE
ISSUES IN COMMUNITIES LIKE
YOUNGSTOWN AND WARREN, IS VERY
POWERFUL.
AND IT GIVES TRADITIONAL
DEMOCRATS THERE COVER TO VOTE
FOR THE REPUBLICAN.
>> Sreenivasan: AND AS YOU
MENTIONED, IT'S NOT NEARLY AS
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE REST OF
THE COUNTRY, AND THAT'S A MUCH
LONGER TERM CHANGE.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
YOU KNOW, THE COUNTRY IS
BECOMING LESS WHITE.
AND, OBVIOUSLY, THERE'S A
CERTAIN BASELINE OF
EDUCATION LEVELS IN THIS
COUNTRY.
IN OHIO IT'S WHITER AND LESS
EDUCATED THAN THE COUNTRY AT
LARGE.
SO IT DOESN'T QUITE REFLECT THE
AMERICA OF 2016.
THIS IS SOMETHING, BY THE WAY,
THAT O.
POLITICAL VETERANS, THEY DON'T
DENY THIS.
IT'S NOT EASY BECAUSE THEY HAVE
GOTTEN USE TO BASKING IN THE
POLITICAL SPOTLIGHT EVERY FOUR
YEARS, BUT THEY'RE COGNIZANT OF
THE FACT THAT OPPONENT IS NOT,
YOU KNOW, THE SORT OF SAME
REFLECTION OF THE COUNTRY THAT
IT WAS 30 YEARS AGO.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
NATIONAL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT
FOR THE "NEW YORK TIMES,"
JONATHAN MARTIN JOINING US FROM
WASHINGTON TODAY.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN A MAGNITUDE
6.2 EARTHQUAKE SHOOK CENTRAL
ITALY THIS SUMMER, THERE WERE
HUNDREDS OF DEATHS, AND HUNDREDS
OF BUILDINGS COLLAPSED IN TOWNS
THAT DATE BACK CENTURIES.
RESCUE EFFORTS CONTINUE TO THIS
DAY-- NOT FOR SURVIVORS, OF
COURSE, BUT TO SAVE THE AREA'S
RICH CULTURAL HERITAGE.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT CHRISTOPHER
LIVESAY REPORTS, IT'S A RACE
AGAINST TIME.
>> Reporter: THE LAZIO REGION
AROUND ROME IS ONE OF ITALY'S
MOST PICTURESQUE, A PLACE WHERE
EVEN THE SMALLEST MOUNTAIN
VILLAGES CAN BE THE HOME OF A
MEDIEVAL CHURCH AND PRICELESS
ARTWORK.
IT'S ALSO ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S
MOST SEISMICALLY ACTIVE REGIONS.
A POWERFUL EARTHQUAKE HERE IN
AUGUST CAUSED AT LEAST
$4.5 BILLION IN DAMAGE,
ACCORDING TO ITALY'S PRIME
MINISTER.
MANY ANCIENT STRUCTURES
COLLAPSED, AND 297 PEOPLE DIED.
THE WORST LOSS OF LIFE AND
DAMAGE OCCURRED IN AMATRICE,
CELEBRATED AS THE TOWN OF 100
CHURCHES, WHERE THE CLOCK IN THE
16th CENTURY BELL TOWER STANDS
FROZEN IN TIME: 3:36 A.M., THE
MOMENT THE EARTHQUAKE STRUCK.
ITALIAN RELIEF WORKERS STILL
FLOOD THE EARTHQUAKE ZONE IN AND
AROUND AMATRICE, HOME TO MORE
THAN 4,000 PEOPLE.
SOME HELP THE RESIDENTS RETURN
TO THEIR HOMES, OR, IF A
STRUCTURE IS DEEMED UNSAFE,
RETRIEVE PERSONAL ITEMS LIKE
CLOTHES, DOCUMENTS AND FAMILY
PORTRAITS.
SO, THEY THINK THAT ALL OF THE
PEOPLE IN THIS TOWN ARE NEVER
GOING TO COME BACK BECAUSE IT'S
GOING TO TAKE 15, 20 YEARS AT
LEAST TO REBUILD EVERYTHING.
AND, BY THAT POINT, THEY ARE NOT
GOING TO WANT TO LIVE HERE
ANYWAY BECAUSE THEY'RE AFRAID OF
ANOTHER EARTHQUAKE HAPPENING.
OTHER RELIEF WORKERS ARE PART OF
AN ELITE TEAM, INCLUDING POLICE
AND FIREFIGHTERS, ON AN URGENT
MISSION TO SAVE THE AREA'S
CULTURAL HERITAGE.
THEY GO DOOR TO DOOR EXAMINING
BUILDINGS AND TAKING PHOTOGRAPHS
TO QUICKLY AND METHODICALLY
ACCOUNT FOR THOUSANDS OF WORKS
OF ART IN CHURCHES, MUSEUMS AND
PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
SO, THIS IS A LIST OF EVERYTHING
THAT THEY'RE SAVING.
THEY GO IN AND CHECK ON THE ART
TO SEE THAT IT'S STILL THERE, TO
SEE THAT IT'S IN GOOD SHAPE.
CAPTAIN LANFRANCO DISIBIO IS
WITH THE TUTELA DEL PATRIMONIO
CULTURALE, BETTER KNOWN AS THE
ART SQUAD.
SET UP IN THE 1960s TO BATTLE
ART AND ANTIQUES FRAUD, ITS ROLE
EXPANDED INTO EARTHQUAKE CRISIS
RESPONSE.
THE ART SQUAD WAS ON THE GROUND
IN AMATRICE ON DAY ONE.
>> (translated): NATURALLY,
THE FIRST PRIORITY WAS TO SAVE
HUMAN LIVES.
OUR WORK TO SAVE ARTWORK BEGINS
ONCE WE KNOW THAT ALL THE PEOPLE
IN A SPECIFIC AREA HAVE BEEN
SAVED OR ACCOUNTED FOR.
APART FROM THEIR INTRINSIC
HISTORIC VALUE, IT'S IMPORTANT
TO SAVE ARTWORK THAT HAS AN
IMPORTANT DEVOTIONAL VALUE
TO THE PEOPLE IN THE AREA THAT
WAS BADLY HIT.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO PRESERVE SUCH
WORKS TO ONE DAY BRING THEM BACK
TO THEIR ORIGINAL CHURCHES.
>> Reporter: THE PROCESS
TYPICALLY STARTS WITH THE VIGILI
DEL FUOCO, THE FIRE AND RESCUE
SERVICE, WHOSE MEMBERS HAVE THE
TRAINING AND SKILLS NECESSARY TO
ENTER EARTHQUAKE-DAMAGED
BUILDINGS STILL AT RISK FROM
CONTINUING AFTERSHOCKS.
CIRO BOLOGNESE IS ONE OF THEIR
STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS.
HE EXPLAINED ONE OF THEIR MOST
COMPLICATED TASKS SO FAR, USING
DRONES AND ROBOTS FROM A
RESEARCH PROJECT CALLED TRADR--
FUNDED BY THE EUROPEAN UNION--
TO RECORD THIS VIDEO INSIDE TWO
OF AMATRICE'S MOST IMPORTANT
CHURCHES, BOTH PARTIALLY
COLLAPSED.
>> WE HAVE A CLEARER IDEA OF
WHAT IS INSIDE THE CHURCH, EVEN
IF WE HAVEN'T GONE INSIDE THE
CHURCH.
>> Reporter: INSIDE THE CHURCH
OF SANT'AGOSTINO, THEY COULD SEE
PAINTINGS STILL HANGING ON THE
WALLS, EXPOSED TO THE ELEMENTS.
THE VIDEO HELPED FIREFIGHTERS
DECIDE ON THE SAFEST WAY TO
REMOVE THEM.
A FEW DAYS LATER, FIREMEN WERE
LOWERED INTO THE CHURCH ON ROPES
TO CAREFULLY LIFT OUT THE
PAINTINGS, NOW BEING STORED WITH
OTHER RESCUED OBJECTS IN A
NEARBY WAREHOUSE.
SOME ART IS MUCH HARDER TO
SAVE-- FOR INSTANCE, THESE WALL
PAINTINGS, OR FRESCOS, IN
AMATRICE'S OTHER LARGE CHURCH,
THE BASILICA OF SAN FRANCESCO.
THE VIDEO SHOWS PARTS OF THEM
HAVE CRUMBLED TO THE GROUND.
BOLOGNESE SAYS THESE IMAGES WILL
BE USED TO MAKE THREE-
DIMENSIONAL MODELS TO HELP THE
CULTURE MINISTRY COME UP WITH A
PLAN TO SAVE THESE STRUCTURES.
IS THE WORK YOU ARE DOING
URGENT?
>> YES.
IT'S URGENT BECAUSE WE HAVE TO
STOP THE MOVEMENT OF THE CHURCH.
OTHERWISE, WITH THE AFTERSHOCKS,
OTHER PARTS COULD COLLAPSE, AND
WE WANT TO AVOID THAT.
>> Reporter: BRUNELLA FRATODDI
IS A CURATOR AT THE MUNICIPAL
MUSEUM OF AMATRICE.
SHE'S LIVING IN A TENT AND
TRAILER IN HER GARDEN NOW
BECAUSE SHE'S NOT SURE IF HER
HOUSE IS SECURE.
FRATODDI TOOK THESE PHOTOS OF
THE MUSEUM, WHICH, LIKE MOST OF
THE TOWN'S HISTORIC CENTER, WAS
HEAVILY DAMAGED.
IT'S A PAINTING, PERHAPS ONE OF
THE MOST IMPORTANT PAINTINGS
THAT THEY WERE ABLE TO RESCUE
FROM THE MUSEUM OF AMATRICE.
THE ART SQUAD WAS ABLE TO SAVE A
LOT, BUT NOT ALL OF THE ART
INSIDE.
SO, SHE HOPES THIS FRESCO IS
STILL THERE INSIDE OF HER MUSEUM
BECAUSE, OF COURSE, IT WAS ON
THE WALL OF THE MUSEUM.
AND SHE DOESN'T KNOW EXACTLY HOW
WELL IT STOOD UP DURING THE
EARTHQUAKE.
HOW DOES IT MAKE YOU FEEL TO SEE
SOME OF THE ART RUINED AND NOW
AT RISK?
>> (translated): IT CUTS
STRAIGHT TO THE HEART.
IT FEELS AWFUL KNOWING THAT SOME
THINGS I'LL NEVER SEE AGAIN AND
THAT THE TOWN WILL NEVER BE THE
SAME AGAIN.
I HOPE WE CAN REBUILD AND
RETRIEVE OUR HERITAGE.
>> Reporter: AND THAT'S EXACTLY
WHAT ITALY'S GOVERNMENT HAS
VOWED-- TO REBUILD AMATRICE AND
THE OTHER TOWNS JUST AS THEY
WERE BEFORE, EVEN USING THE SAME
STONES WHENEVER POSSIBLE.
SERGIO PIROZZI IS AMATRICE'S
MAYOR, WHO WAS WIDELY QUOTED THE
DAY THE EARTHQUAKE HIT, SAYING,
"HALF THE TOWN IS GONE."
TODAY, HE'S LOOKING TO THE
FUTURE WITH OPTIMISM.
CAN THE TOWN BE REBORN?
>> (translated): SURE.
JUST AS IT WAS BEFORE.
I'M HOPING, COUNTING ON THIS.
>> Reporter: IF THE PAST IS ANY
GUIDE, RECONSTRUCTION WILL BE A
LONG AND DIFFICULT PROCESS.
TAKE L'AQUILA.
ABOUT AN HOUR AWAY, AN
EARTHQUAKE IN 2009 DEVASTATED
THIS MEDIEVAL CITY.
TODAY, ITS CENTER REMAINS A
CONSTRUCTION ZONE, WITH HUNDREDS
OF BUILDINGS STILL BEING
REBUILT AMID FUNDING SETBACKS
AND ALLEGATIONS OF CORRUPTION.
SO, EVERY PIECE OF PLYWOOD HAS
SOME PIECE OF ART BEING
PROTECTED FROM THE ELEMENTS
BEHIND IT.
AT THIS CHURCH IN L'AQUILA, A
FIRE BRIGADE ENGINEER SHOWED US
SOME OF THE TECHNIQUES USED TO
STABILIZE THE BUILDING, LIKE
THIS METAL ARCH BOLTED INSIDE
THE APSE OF THE CHURCH.
THESE FIXES WERE SUPPOSED TO BE
TEMPORARY, BUT THEY'VE BEEN IN
PLACE FOR SEVEN YEARS.
THE CHURCH STILL HAS NO ROOF.
BACK IN AMATRICE, THE LESSONS
LEARNED IN L'AQUILA WILL BE
APPLIED TO STRUCTURES LIKE
SANT'AGOSTINO.
CAN IT BE MADE MORE
EARTHQUAKE-RESISTANT SO THAT IF
A SIMILAR EARTHQUAKE HAPPENS IN
THE FUTURE, WE CAN HOPE THIS
DOESN'T HAPPEN AGAIN?
>> YES.
WHEN WE REPAIR THIS CHURCH USING
ACTUAL NATIONAL CODE FOR
BUILDINGS, IT WILL BE REPAIRED
USING MATERIALS BUT ALSO
PROVIDING THE REINFORCED
STRUCTURES.
>> Reporter: BUT MANY ITALIANS
ARE SKEPTICAL AND POINT TO A
PAIR OF BUILDINGS IN AMATRICE.
THE FIRST IS THE POLICE
HEADQUARTERS.
FOLLOWING THE L'AQUILA QUAKE IN
2009, IT WAS REINFORCED TO MAKE
IT MORE QUAKE-RESISTANT.
THE GRAY PAINT AND CROSSES AT
THE TOP SHOW WHERE STEEL BARS
WERE PUT IN TO SUPPORT THE
WALLS.
THE BUILDING IS DAMAGED BUT
STILL STANDING.
THE SECOND BUILDING IS ACROSS
THE STREET-- THIS ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL, WHICH WAS SUPPOSED TO
HAVE BEEN REINFORCED, TOO, BUT
ALMOST COMPLETELY COLLAPSED.
HAD THE QUAKE STRUCK DURING THE
SCHOOL DAY INSTEAD OF 3:00 IN
THE MORNING, MORE THAN 200
CHILDREN OF AMATRICE COULD HAVE
BEEN AT RISK.
ITALIAN AUTHORITIES ARE
INVESTIGATING WHY IT AND SO MANY
OTHER BUILDINGS WERE NOT MORE
QUAKE-RESISTANT.
CERTAIN BUILDINGS FELL DOWN THAT
PERHAPS SHOULDN'T HAVE, LIKE THE
SCHOOL.
WHAT KIND OF ASSURANCES WILL
PEOPLE HAVE ONCE THEY COME BACK
TO AMATRICE THAT THIS KIND OF
THING WON'T HAPPEN AGAIN?
>> (translated): UNLIKE THE
U.S., ITALY'S HISTORY GOES BACK
MORE THAN 1,000 YEARS.
BUT IT'S NOT SO MUCH A QUESTION
OF AGE; IT'S ABOUT HOW MUCH
MONEY IS AVAILABLE.
IF YOU STUDY THINGS FOR A
MOMENT, THERE'S A SUBSTANTIAL
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN IMPROVEMENT
AND CONFORMING TO CODE.
CONFORMING TO CODE COSTS A LOT
OF MONEY, JUST IMPROVING A
BUILDING COSTS LESS MONEY.
>> Reporter: I ASKED THE MAYOR,
IN THE FUTURE, WILL YOU
IMPLEMENT JUST IMPROVEMENTS OR
WILL YOU CONFORM TO CODE?
>> (translated): IT DEPENDS ON
HOW MUCH THE STATE WANTS TO
SPEND.
RECONSTRUCTION WILL HAPPEN
ACCORDING TO THE RIGHT RESOURCES
AVAILABLE.
WITH THE RIGHT RESOURCES, YOU
CAN DO SOMETHING.
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE RIGHT
RESOURCES, YOU CAN'T.
>> Reporter: BEFORE
RECONSTRUCTION BEGINS, THE ART
SQUAD NEEDS TO FINISH ITS JOB.
SO FAR, IT'S BEEN ABLE TO SAVE
ABOUT 300 PAINTINGS, SCULPTURES
AND OTHER ARTWORKS, BUT THERE
ARE STILL HUNDREDS THEY HAVEN'T
REACHED YET OR ACCOUNTED FOR IN
THE AREA.
SOMETIMES LOCAL PEOPLE NEED TO
BE REASSURED THAT THE ART TAKEN
AWAY FOR SAFEKEEPING WILL NOT BE
LOST OR FORGOTTEN, AND
EVENTUALLY WILL BE RETURNED,
LIKE THIS CHURCH CARETAKER.
"WHO'S GOING TO LOOK AFTER IT?"
HE ASKS.
FOR MUSEUM CURATOR BRUNELLA
FRATODDI, RESTORING THE ART
TREASURES IS THE KEY TO BRINGING
BACK TOURISTS AND THE PEOPLE WHO
CALLED AMATRICE HOME.
>> (translated): AMATRICE WAS
VOTED ONE OF THE MOST BEAUTIFUL
TOWNS IN ITALY.
ITS ART COULD BE A STIMULUS TO
REBUILD THIS CITY AS IT WAS.
>> Sreenivasan: READ ABOUT
EFFORTS TO EXPAND THE RIGHTS OF
FARM WORKERS ON OUR WEB SITE AT
www,pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS WEEK,
OXFORD UNIVERSITY RESEARCHERS
RELEASED A STUDY THAT MAY POINT
TO NEW TREATMENTS FOR PEOPLE
INFECTED WITH H.I.V., THE VIRUS
THAT CAUSES AIDS.
THE STUDY LOOKED AT YOUNG
CHILDREN IN SOUTH AFRICA WITH
H.I.V. AND FOUND THAT 10% OF
THEM NEVER DEVELOP SYMPTOMS OF
AIDS.
TO DISCUSS THE IMPLICATIONS OF
THIS STUDY, I AM JOINED BY SKYPE
FROM OXFORD, ENGLAND, BY PHILIP
GOULDER, A PROFESSOR OF
PEDIATRICS AT OXFORD UNIVERSITY,
WHO LED THE RESEARCH TEAM.
SO, PROFESSOR, WHAT DO THESE
CHILDREN HAVE THAT'S SPECIAL?
HOW IS IT THAT THEY DON'T GO
FROM H.I.V. TO AIDS?
>> WELL, THE INTERESTING THING
ABOUT THESE CHILDREN IS THAT, AS
YOU SAY, THEY DON'T PROGRESS TO
THE DISEASE THROUGH CHILDHOOD.
AND CHILDREN IN GENERAL WITH
H.I.V., SOMETHING LIKE 60%
WITHOUT TREATMENT WOULD DIE IN
THE FIRST TWO AND A HALF YEARS.
SO THIS IS QUITE AN UNEXPECTED
FINDING.
AND WE INITIALLY LOOKED TO SEE
WHETHER THIS WAS TO DO WITH THE
IMMUNE RESPONSES AGAINST THE
VIRUS.
AND IN FACT, ALTHOUGH THEY DO
MAKE QUITE STRONG IMMUNE
RESPONSES AGAINST THE VIRUS,
THIS WASN'T THE REASON THEY
DIDN'T PROGRESS.
BUT THE REASON WAS THAT THEY, IN
SPITE OF HAVING A LOT OF VIRUS
ON BOARD, THEIR IMMUNE
ACTIVATION LEVELS ARE RELATIVELY
LOW.
SO, IN SOME SENSES, THEY TEND TO
IGNORE THE VIRUS, AND, AS A
RESULT, THEY DON'T GET ANY
DISEASE FROM IT.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT'S THE
OPPOSITE OF WHAT AN ADULT BODY
WOULD DO, RIGHT?
I MEAN, IT WOULD-- OUR BODY
WOULD ATTACK AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE, AND YOU'RE SAYING THE
PEACE VERSUS THE WAR MIGHT BE
BETTER IN THESE CASES?
>> EXACTLY SO.
THE IMMUNE SYSTEM HAS A VERY
DIFFICULT JOB ON ITS HANDS,
BECAUSE IF YOU MAKE TOO WEAK A
RESPONSE, YOU RUN THE RISK OF
BEING KILLED BY A FOREIGN
INVADER; AND IF YOU MAKE TOO
STRONG A RESPONSE, THEN THE
IMMUNE RESPONSE CAUSES A DISEASE
ON ITS OWN ACCOUNT.
SO, FINDING THAT PERFECT MIDDLE
LINE IS A VERY DIFFICULT THING
FOR THE IMMUNE RESPONSE.
SO, OBVIOUSLY, THE IMMUNE
SYSTEM HAS TO DEAL WITH ALL
SORTS OF DIFFERENT PATHOGENS AND
HANDLE THOSE.
AND H.I.V. IS JUST ONE
PARTICULAR VIRUS THAT IT HAS TO
DEAL WITH.
>> Sreenivasan: WILL THESE
CHILDREN BE SAFE FOR THE REST OF
THEIR LIVES?
WILL THEY NOT DEVELOP AIDS?
>> WE THINK SOME OF THEM, AS
THEY TRANSITION FROM CHILDHOOD
INTO ADOLESCENCE AND ADULTHOOD,
ACTUALLY DO START TO MAKE THE
SORT OF IMMUNE RESPONSES THAT
ARE CHARACTERISTIC OF ADULTS.
IN OTHER WORDS, THEY START TO
TRY AND FIGHT THE VIRUS.
ALTHOUGH THAT TENDS TO BRING THE
VIRUS DOWN, THE BAD SIDE IS THE
IMMUNE SYSTEM GETS MORE AND MORE
ACTIVATED, AND ACTUALLY, THEY
PROGRESS MORE RAPIDLY.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THERE ARE
STILL SOME WHO CAN REACH
ADULTHOOD AND STILL REMAIN
NON-PROGRESSORS.
>> Sreenivasan: TELL US, WHAT
DOES THIS TEACH US, WHAT DOES
THIS TEACH MEDICINE OR EVEN THE
PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY?
DO WE CHANGE OUR STRATEGY OR OUR
APPROACH?
DO WE TRY TO BUILD DIFFERENT
KINDS OF DRUGS IN THE FUTURE
THAT TRIES TO MIMIC WHAT THESE
CHILDREN ARE DOING NATURALLY?
>> I THINK SO.
I THINK WE CAN ACTUALLY LEARN A
LOT FROM WHAT CHILDREN CAN TEACH
US IN THE DIFFERENT WAY THAT
THEY APPROACH DEALING WITH
FOREIGN PATHOGENS LIKE H.I.V.
AND IN THIS INSTANCE, OBVIOUSLY,
ANTI-RETROVIRAL THERAPY IS
THE MAINSTAY OF TREATMENT FOR
PEOPLE WITH H.I.V.
AND THE PROGNOSIS FOR PEOPLE
WITH H.I.V. HAS BEEN TRANSFORMED
BY ANTI-RETROVIRAL THERAPY.
THAT BEING SAID, THE IMMUNE
RESPONSE OF PEOPLE WITH H.I.V.
DOESN'T RETURN BACK TO NORMAL,
EVEN WITH SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT.
SO, THERE'S STILL A NEED FOR NEW
APPROACHES TO TRY AND BRING THE
IMMUNE SYSTEM BACK TO NORMAL SO
PEOPLE WITH H.I.V., EVEN ON
TREATMENT, DON'T RUN THE RISK OF
SO-CALLED NON-AIDS-ASSOCIATED
DISEASES LIKE CANCERS AND
CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE, TO WHICH
THEY'RE AT RISK.
>> Sreenivasan: PHILIP
GOULDER, PROFESSOR OF
PEDIATRICS AT OXFORD UNIVERSITY.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: NOW TO "VIEWERS
LIKE YOU," YOUR CHANCE TO
COMMENT ON OUR WORK.
LAST WEEKEND, WE BROUGHT YOU THE
STORY OF DAN PRICE, THE C.E.O.
OF GRAVITY PAYMENTS, A SEATTLE-
BASED CREDIT CARD SERVICING
COMPANY WHO DECIDED TO GUARANTEE
A HIGH MINIMUM WAGE TO ALL HIS
EMPLOYEES-- $70,000 A YEAR.
TO HELP PAY FOR THAT RAISE,
PRICE CUT HIS OWN SALARY FROM
$1 MILLION A YEAR TO $70,000.
CHRIS ANDERSON SAID:
"BIG SHOCKER-- HAPPY EMPLOYEES
WHO FEEL LIKE VALUED TEAM
PLAYERS ARE MORE PRODUCTIVE AND
WORK HARDER TO MOVE THE
ORGANIZATION FORWARD."
REMY JAGLA ADDED: "THIS ACTUALLY
WILL WORK FOR HIS COMPANY FOR A
FEW REASONS.
THE MAIN ONE IS THAT HIS GOAL
WAS TO LIVE AN ETHICAL AND
BALANCED LIFE AND HAD NO PROBLEM
LIVING A HUMBLE LIFE."
AND FROM ED GREEN: "FOR THIS GUY
TO ACTUALLY NOTICE THE LEVEL OF
SALARY INEQUALITY IN HIS OWN
COMPANY AND ACTUALLY DO
SOMETHING ABOUT IT IS
FANTASTIC."
BUT THERE WERE THOSE OF YOU WHO
TOOK ISSUE WITH PRICE'S
DECISION.
RICHARD LAUX SAID: "THE COST OF
LIVING IN THE LOCALITY IS WHAT
SHOULD SET THE MINIMUM WAGE.
AN ACROSS THE BOARD, MANDATED
MINIMUM WAGE IS NOT FAIR."
AND ZACK NARKIN QUESTIONED
PRICE'S DECISION: "IS IT REALLY
FAIR THAT THE CUSTOMER SERVICE
AGENT MAKES THE SAME SALARY AS
THE C.E.O.?
AND WHERE IS THE INCENTIVE FOR
PROMOTION WITHIN THE COMPANY IF
IT DOESN'T COME WITH AN INCREASE
IN PAY?"
KELLY ERIKSON CALLED THE
DECISION: "ECONOMIC SUICIDE."
BEN O'DELL ADDED: "I'M FOR
RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE, BUT
THIS EXAMPLE IS ABSURD.
IT HELPED GRAVITY'S BUSINESS
BECAUSE COVERAGE OF THEIR
DECISION GAVE THE COMPANY A TON
OF FREE MEDIA EXPOSURE."
AND ROBERTA ANDERSON KIRZINGER
SAID SIMPLY: "WOW, PLEASE HIRE
ME!"
AS ALWAYS WE WELCOME YOUR
COMMENTS AT
www.pbs.org/newshour, ON OUR
FACEBOOK PAGE, OR TWEET US
@NEWSHOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY,
SWITZERLAND NOW HOSTS THE
WORLD'S HIGHEST WIND FARM.
A GROUP OF TURBINES STANDING 278
FEET TALL ATOP THE SWISS ALPS
HAVE BEGUN CHURNING 8,200 FEET
ABOVE SEA LEVEL.
THEY'RE EXPECTED TO PRODUCE UP
TO TEN GIGAWATTS OF ELECTRICITY
A YEAR, ENOUGH TO POWER CLOSE TO
3,000 HOMES.
TOMORROW ON THE PROGRAM, THE
FIGHT FOR FLORIDA'S LATINO VOTE.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.